~~~ Scala Keywords ~~~

abstract:	defines abstract class (class that allows incomplete members)

case:		the statement executes when the case MATCHES the condition

catch:		will catch an exception and halt program, similar to python

class:		a class is a blueprint for an instance of an object. can
		be defined as (but not limited to) abstract class, final class,
		and sealed class. Also case class: case class <class name>

def:		defines a function. A function may be called with
		or without attributes.

do:		executes a statement in the DO block as long as the WHILE
		condition is true. A do-while loop in full form.

else:		defines the statement that executes when IF returns false

extends:	creates a class that inherits from another class

false:		the Boolean literal value of "false"

final:		defines a class that cannot be extended. Cannot be combined
		with SEALED. final may also be used to define a class member
		that cannot be overridden, or a constant value.

finally:	the final statement of the try-catch-finally block. Will
		execute regardless of whether an error is caught.

for:		creates and runs a for loop; executes by iterating over
		a statement or statements.

forSome:	defines an alias for an existential type; an existential type
		is a generic type to work with raw java types.

if:		creates and runs a conditional execution statement. ELSE
		is used in conjunction with if to execute a statement
		should the if statement return false.

implicit:	defines a parameter that is implicitly replaced by another
		statement when called. This conversion method is called
		implicit conversion.

import:		imports into the module. import may be used to import classes,
		objects, specific instances of each, and is also able to rename
		imported entities.

lazy:		defines a lazy value; that which is instantiated and evaluted 
		when and only when it is used for the first time.

match:		defines a pattern to match. match is used to execute case
		statements within a block.

new:		creates a new instance of a class (OOP)

null:		assigns NULL value. Not 0, but a lack of a value.

object:		an object is an instance of a (singleton) class.

override:	redefines a member of a class, whether a value or method.
		May also be used to redefine an abstract trait or method.

package:	by using the package keyword, every item defined in the
		scala file is part of the package. Useful for imports.

private:	defines a class member, object, or variable that may only
		be accessed from the current class or companion class/object.
		Private class members may not be accessed by sub classes.

protected:	defines a class member, object, or variable that may only
		be accessed from within the class, by the companion class
		or object, or from its derived classes.

return:		returns the value of a function. Scala implicitly returns
		the last statement of a function and so can usually
		be avoided in code.

sealed:		defines a class that can only be inherited by classes
		defined in the same source file. SEALED and FINAL modifiers
		cannot be used on the same class.

super:		give access to super classes members

this:		represents the current instance of the class. May also be
		used to inject other classes into classes, define alternative
		constructors, or define class/object visibility.

throw:		throws an error that may be caught by a try-catch(-finally) block

trait:		the trait keyword defines a class that cannot be instantiated

true:		the Boolean literal value of "true"

try:		a try-catch block handles runtime errors that are caught 
		then processed through the use of pattern matching

type:		the type keyword defines an ABSTRACT type; in other words,
		it is an alias of a type defined in another class, whether
		it is generic, abstract, or defined as a trait.

val:		defines a value identifier that cannot be reassigned to
		another value

var:		defines a variable identifier that may be reassigned to
		another value

while:		executes a statement while the statement returns true
		and stops execution when it returns false. May be used
		in a do-while loop.

with:		creates a class that inherits from multiple classes and
		traits

yield:		defines a FOR comprehension. Produces a composite value.
		A FOR comprehension may be used to iterate over one or
		multiple collections; as well as execute blocks of code
		based on complex pattern matching rules.
